.\" (C) Copyright 2023 S. V. Nickolas.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\"   1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"   2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.
.\"
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd January 26, 2023
.Dt CAT 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cat
.Nd display and concatenate files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm cat
.Op Fl estuv
.Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command reads a file and writes it to the standard output.
.Pp
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl e
Prints a dollar sign ($) at the end of each line.
.It Fl s
Squeezes multiple blank lines.
.It Fl t
Displays tabs as
.Dq ^I
and form feeds as
.Dq ^L ,
but does not expand other control characters (see
.Fl v
below).
.It Fl u
Suppresses buffering; immediately writes all input to standard output.
.It Fl v
Displays control characters with caret syntax and bytes with high order
bit set prefixed by
.Dq M- .
.El
.Sh HISTORY
A
.Nm
command appeared in 
.At v6 .
This implementation, based on the SunOS 4.1.4,
.At V
and
.Bx 4.4
versions, has been entirely rewritten.
