.\" (C) Copyright 2023 S. V. Nickolas.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\" 
.\"   1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
.\"      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"   2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd January 23, 2023
.Dt GREP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm grep
.Nd search files against regular expressions or fixed strings
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm grep 
.Op Fl E | Fl F
.Op Fl c | Fl l | Fl q
.Op Fl HRbhinrsvx
.Ar pattern
.Op Ar
.Nm grep
.Op Fl E | Fl F
.Op Fl c | Fl l | Fl q
.Op Fl HRbhinrsvx
{
.Fl e
.Ar pattern |
.Fl f
.Ar patternfile
}
.Op ...
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The 
.Nm grep
command searches files for patterns or strings, displaying every line which
matches the provided rules.  By default, a line matches if at least one
regular expression pattern matches against its contents.
.Pp
The following options are supported:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl E
Replace the standard regular expression parser with the enhanced regular
expression parser.
.It Fl F
Replace the regular expression parser with a simple string matching routine.
.It Fl H
Display the name of the file before each line, even if only one file was
specified.
.It Fl R
Recurse into directories; follow symbolic links.
.It Fl b
Display the approximate block number containing each line with a pattern
match.  (Not exactly useful and only maintained for backward compatibility.)
.It Fl c
Instead of displaying each line, only display a total count of lines in each
file matching one or more (or with
.Fl v ,
no) patterns.
.It Fl e Ar pattern
Provide a pattern, allowing multiple patterns to be specified in the same
command line.
.It Fl f Ar patternfile
Provide a text file containing a list of patterns to match.
.It Fl h
Do not display filenames, even if more than one file is specified.
.It Fl i
Ignore case when matching patterns or strings.
.It Fl l
Display only the names of files containing one or more (or with
.Fl v ,
no) matches.
.It Fl n
Display the number of each line with a pattern match.
.It Fl q
Be quiet; display nothing and return only an exit code.
.It Fl r
Recurse into subdirectories; do not follow symbolic links.
.It Fl s
Suppress diagnostics caused by file open or read errors.
.It Fl v
Report mismatches instead of matches.
.It Fl x
Match patterns or strings only against the entire line.
.Pp
.El
If no filename is specified, 
.Nm grep
will use the standard input, unless
.Fl r
is specified, in which case it will use the current directory.
.Sh RETURN VALUE
The 
.Nm grep
command will exit with one of the following codes:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag -compact
.It Li 0
At least one line was selected.
.It Li 1
No lines were selected.
.It Li >1
An error occurred.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ed 1 ,
.Xr ex 1 ,
.Xr sed 1
.Sh HISTORY
A 
.Nm grep
command appeared in 
.At v6 .
This implementation, based on the POSIX regular expression library and broadly
compatible with 
.At V ,
has been entirely rewritten.
.Sh BUGS
Block numbers displayed do not always match those emitted by the original
version.
