.\" (C) Copyright 2023 S. V. Nickolas.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\"
.\"   1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"   2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.
.\"
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd January 29, 2023
.Dt LN 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ln
.Nd create links
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl LPfs
.Ar source ...
.Ar target
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command creates hard or soft (symbolic) links to existing files.
.Ar target
may (and if more than one
.Ar source
is specified, must) be a directory, in which case the links will bear the same
filenames.
.Pp
The following options are supported:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Fl L
If 
.Ar source
is a symbolic link, create a link to its target.
.It Fl P
If 
.Ar source
is a symbolic link, create a link to the link.
.It Fl f
Erase existing files before creating new links.
.It Fl s
Create soft links.  By default,
.Nm
creates hard links.
.El
.Sh BUGS
.Fl L
and
.Fl P
are ignored on systems strictly compatible with
.At V .
.Sh HISTORY
A 
.Nm
command appeared in 
.At v6 .
This implementation has been entirely rewritten.
