.\" (C) Copyright 2020, 2023 S. V. Nickolas.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
.\" met:
.\" 
.\"   1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
.\"      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"   2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
.\" DISCLAIMED.
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
.\" ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.Dd September 19, 2020
.Dt RANDOM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm random
.Nd generate a random number
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm random
.Op Fl s
.Op Ar scale
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm random
utility generates a random number from 0 to
.Ar scale
(default 2) minus 1, and, by default, writes it on the standard output.
The maximum value for
.Ar scale
is 255.
.Pp
The following option is available:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl s
Suppresses output of the number.
.El
.Pp
You may optionally specify a
.Ar scale
from 1-255, denoting one higher than the desired maximum value.
The default is 2, which returns a value of 0 or 1.
.Sh RETURN VALUE
On exit,
.Nm random
returns the number generated.
